# sokol-luajit
A luajit set of ffi wrappers for the excellent sokol framework,

## Sokol
The repo is based entirely on the brilliant framework here:
https://github.com/floooh/sokol

Some of the source files have been modified to support shared libraries a little better and make the binding of ffi a little easier. There are only small changes, but this is kept in this location - do not use as a source for sokol itself.
https://github.com/dlannan/sokol

The build process builds Win, Linux, Mac OSX, IOS but not Android atm. I need to build a shared library mechansim for this to work well. Thus, the build for it currently fails.

## Luajit Sokol
The only provided main luajit binaries are for win64. 
To run other platforms, please build luajit for your platform and place in the bin/<your platform> directory.
You will also need to modify the paths at the top of the samples lua scripts to match. I will update this to be more friendly in the future (by using ffi.os).

The Wasm part of sokol might not be able to be utilized in this manner. However I do have plans to compile Luajit->wasm and embed sokol generated bytecode. It should be possible, but that is along term goal.

## Examples
I have ported 5 examples from sokol, and will be adding more. These show how the ffi interface can be used.

How to use the example. Open a command window or powershell and cd to the examples folder where run_sample.bat is.
Run the exec like:

```run_sample.bat cube_sapp```


Some notes:
- There are a number of objects that must be created as pointers. In ffi the easiest way to do this is to make an array object of size 1 and this way the handle in lua is a pointer and the object access uses the array indexing.
- No performance considerations have been taken into account. These are almost direct 1 to 1 mappings of the sokol C samples to luajit samples. 
- pathing is not yet made friendly. Use the run_sample bat file with one of the following parameters:

   cube_sapp        - Simple spinning cube

   shadow_sapp      - Shadowed cube with moving light

   shapes_sapp      - Primitive shapes spinning

   triangle_sapp    - Classic triangle

   offscreen_sapp   - Sphere with render texture torii? spinning on its surface.


Feel free to contribute or post issues/ideas comment. I put this together yesterday, and its very rudimentary atm.